In April 2015, Olivia participated in the Oregon State Extended assessment. She received a score of 206 in math and a score of 220 in reading.Math scores fell under
"nearly meets". This score indicate that Olivia has an inconsistent or partial mastery of knowledge and skills related to essentialized standards that do not meet
proficiency. In Math she demonstrated proficient performance with test items linked to grade level content. It should be noted that Olivia's anxiety related to her autism
interferes with her ability to always accurately assess her academic abilities.
Functional academic:
Math: Olivia's current progress towards her Math goals and objectives include; She has demonstrated that she can round numbers to the nearest 10 from a field of 2
with over 70% accuracy and can add with renaming with 80% accuracy and subtract with borrowing with 67% accuracy with verbal and gestural prompts. When
provided the steps on an index card she demonstrates a higher degree of accuracy. Olivia has preferred routines when completing her academics and struggles with
adding new or complexity to previously acquired skills such as adding renaming and borrowing to her subtraction skills.
Olivia was given a non formal math assessment November 2015, results were similar to those observed by teachers and staff. The assessment reviewed skills
ranging from k-8.
1:1 correspondence: Olivia will often count too quickly resulting in missing objects or counting twice. She is successful with verbal and gestural prompts to slow down.
Sequencing: She is able to sequence numbers by filling in missing number in single integer increments.
Adding and subtracting terms: Olivia can recognizing the terms more than and less, and equal to in a basic work problem.
Adding and subtraction: Olivia can add and and subtract large numbers without renaming but continues to need verbal and written prompts to complete problems
involving renaming and borrowing.
Least to greatest/ greater and less than: Olivia was unable to correctly complete these tasks.
Addition and subtraction word problems: With access to a calculator Olivia is able to answer simple basic addition and subtraction word problems independently.
Count by's: She is able to accurately count by 2's. 5's and 10's.
Renaming and borrowing: Olivia knows the steps but continues to need verbal and written prompts.
Distractors: Currently she is unable to solve word problems that contain distractors.
Multiplication and division number and word problems: Skill not acquired.
Fractions: Olivia is able to identify numerator and denominator but currently demonstrates limited understanding of fractions.
Odd and even: Olivia can not currently identify whether a number is odd or even.
Time telling: Olivia can read an analog clock and determine time with in a couple of minutes.
Olivia's demonstrates inconsistencies throughout her mathematic skills.
Reading/ writing: Olivia is able to decode reading material at the 3rd grade level and with verbal prompts can answer basic question about the text with 83% accuracy.
Olivia was given the Ekwal Shanker informal reading assessment November 2015, she was able to decode with 98% accuracy up to a 5th grade reading text and
scored a 90% in comprehension at the 2nd grade level, 40% at the 3rd and 70% at the 4th grade with multiple choice. Olivia has demonstrated improvement in her
participation both in 1:1 and small group instruction with both preferred and non preferred subjects. Inferential questions continue to be a struggle but improvement
has been noted. Olivia can correctly copy community/ functional words and can correctly spell known words and personal information such as her city, state and street
address with 80% or better accuracy.
